A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Actions speak louder than words.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
All for one and one for all.
All good things must come to an end.
All's well that ends well.
All that glisters is not gold.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
As the old cock crows, so crows the young.
Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
A bad workman blames his tools.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Before criticizing a man, walk a mile in his shoes.
Beggars can't be choosers.
The belly has no ears.
Better to be alone than in bad company.
Better the devil you know (than the one you don't).
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
Bloom where you are planted.
Boys will be boys.
Brag is a good Dog, but Holdfast is a better.
A broken watch is right two times a day.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
The child is father to the man.
Cometh the hour, cometh the man.
Common sense is not so common.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Don't carry coals to newcastle.
Don't go between the tree and the bark.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
The door swings both ways.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Eat your own dog food.
Education is a progressive discovery of our own ignorance.
The ends justify the means.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
Even a dog can distinguish between being stumbled over and being kicked.
Every dog has its day.
Everyone talks of changing the world, but no one talks of changing himself.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
From those to whom much is given, much is expected.
Fortune favours the brave.
Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down.
Garbage in, garbage out.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Give a dog a bad name and he'll live up to it.  ''(or''  ...he'll repay you for it.''')''
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
Give and take is fair play.
Give, and ye shall receive.
Give credit where credit is due.
Give him an inch and he'll take a yard.
Go with the flow.
God cures and the physician takes the fee.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
A good beginning makes (for) a good ending.
Good eating deserves good drinking.
Good fences make good neighbors.
Good men are hard to find.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
Good wine needs no bush.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
Grasp all, lose all.
Great events cast their shadows before them.
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A half truth is a whole lie.
You can't) Have your cake and eat it too.
Haste makes waste.
He laughs best who laughs last.
He who dares wins.
Health is wealth.
Hindsight is always twenty-twenty. 
He who hesitates is lost.
Handsome is what handsome does.
I complained I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
Idle hands are the devil's playthings.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
If it can't be cured, it must be endured.
If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck, and quacks like a duck, then it probably is a duck.
If it's too good to be true, then it probably is.
If God had wanted man to fly, He would have given him wings.
If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
If something can go wrong, it will.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If the truth hurts, you are not living right.
If wishes were fishes, we'd all cast nets.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
If you buy quality, you only cry once.
If you can't be good, be careful.
If you can't beat them, join them.
If you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen.
If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. And if they don't, they never were.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
If you sup with the devil, use a long spoon.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
Ignorance is bliss.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In one ear and out the other.
In order to get where you want to go, you first have to leave where you are.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Insanity is doing the same thing over and over, expecting different results.
It's a cracked pitcher that goes longest to the well.
It's a long lane that has no turning.
It's always darkest before the dawn.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
It's better to be safe than sorry.
It's better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
It is better to die on one's feet than live on one's knees.
It's better to give than to receive.
It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
It's cheaper to keep her.
It's easier to ask forgiveness than permission.
It's easy to be wise after the event.
It's never too late to mend.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
It ain't over till it's over.
It's the early bird that gets the worm.
It's the empty can that makes the most noise.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
It takes two to tango.
Jack of all trades and master of none. (18th Century)
Joan is as good as my lady in the dark. (17th Century)
A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
Justice delayed is justice denied.(Legal Proverb, India)
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer.
Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.
Kindness, like grain, increase by sowing.
A kingdom is lost for want of a shoe.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
Knowledge is power. (17th Century)
Kindness, like a boomerang, always returns.
Laugh and the world laughs with you. Cry and you cry alone.
Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
The law is a jealous mistress.
Law is the solemn expression of legislative will.
Lead by example.
Learn to walk before you run.
Least said sooner mended.
Less is more.
Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas.
Life begins at forty.
Life imitates art.
Life imitates chess.
Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it.
Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.
Life is too short.
Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
Life is what you do while you're waiting to die.
Life is what you make of it. Always has been, always will be.
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Like cures like.
Like father, like son.
Little by little and bit by bit.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Live and let live.
The longest mile is the last mile home.
Look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves.
Look before you leap.
Look on the sunny side of life.
Loose lips sink ships.
Love is blind.
Love is like war, Easy to start, Hard to end, Impossible to forget.
Love is not finding someone to live with; it's finding someone whom you can't live without.
Love is stronger than any addiction, baby. Hell, it is one.
Love laughs at locksmiths.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man's home is his castle.
Man proposes but God disposes.
Manners maketh the man.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many hands make light work.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
Marry in haste, and repent at leisure.
Measure twice, cut once.
Mind your own business.
Mind your P's and Q's.
Misery loves company.
Misfortunes never come singly. 
A miss by an inch is a miss by a mile.
Missing the wood for the trees.
Money cannot buy happiness.
(Love of) Money is the root of all evil.
Money makes the mare go.
Money makes the world go around.
Money talks.
Monkey see, monkey do.
More haste, less speed.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
The more you study, the more you know. The more you know, the more you forget. The more you forget, the less you know. The less you know the more you study.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down.
Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
Never cast a clout till May be out.
Never judge a book by its cover.
Never let the right hand know what the left hand is doing.
Never lie to your doctor.
Never lie to your lawyer.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Never put off till (until) tomorrow what you can do today.
Never say die.
Never say never.
Never trouble trouble 'til trouble troubles you.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A night with Venus and a life with mercury.
No man can serve two masters.
No man is an island.
No news is good news.
No pain, no gain.
No time like the present.
Noblesse oblige.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
There are none so blind as they who will not see.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing to be feared in life, but understood.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
An old dog will learn no tricks.
Old habits die hard.
One good turn deserves another.
One grain of sand can tip the scale.
One man's junk is another man's treasure.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter. - Ronald Reagan
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. - English, 17th century
One murder makes a villain, millions a hero.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel.
One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
One swallow doesn't make a summer.
Once bitten, twice shy.
The only free cheese is in the mouse trap.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
Opportunity knocks only once.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
Our greatest glory is not in never falling but in rising every time we fall.
Out of sight... Out of mind.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
Paddle your own canoe.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance. ''(a.k.a The six P's)''
A picture is worth a thousand words.
The pitcher which goes too often to the well gets broken.
Politeness costs nothing and gains everything. <M.W. Montagu>
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Practice before you preach.
Practice makes perfect.
Prevention is better than cure.
Pride comes before the fall. ''(Pride comes before a fall.)''
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Proverbs run in pairs.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to the devil.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Reality is not only stranger than we imagine, it is stranger than we can imagine.
Reality is often stranger than fiction.
Repetition is the mother of memory.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
A rolling stone gathers no mass.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
The rotten apple injures its neighbors.
Rules were meant to be broken.
Say something nice or say nothing at all.
Seek and ye shall find.
Seeing is believing.
Self trust is the first secret of success.
Sell a man a fish, he eats for a day, teach a man how to fish, he eats for the rest of his life. 
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Shit or get off the pot.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
Some days you get the bear, other days the bear gets you.
Someone who gossips to you will gossip about you.
Something is better than nothing.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
Still waters run deep.
A stitch in time saves nine.
Stolen fruit is the sweetest.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Success (only) comes after every necessary precaution.
Success grows out of struggles to overcome difficulties.
Success is a journey not a destination.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
Take an old dirty, hungry, mangy, sick and wet dog and feed him and wash him and nurse him back to health, and he will never turn on you and bite you. This is how man and dog differ.  
Take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger.
The dogs bark but the caravan goes on.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
There is luck in odd numbers.
The teacher has not taught, until the student has learned.
There is no smoke without fire.
There are no small parts, only small actors.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
There's always a calm before a storm.
There's many a slip 'twixt cup and lip.
Where there's muck there's brass.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
There's no accounting for taste.
There's no fool like an old fool.
There's no peace for the wicked.
There's no place like home.
There is no royal road to learning.
There's no such thing as a free lunch.
There's no time like the present.
A thief thinks everyone steals.
Think before you speak.
This, too, shall pass.
Those who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Time and tide wait for none.
Time flies. 
Time flies when you're having fun.
Time is money.
Time will tell.
Tis better to have loved and lost than to have never loved at all.
Tit for tat.
To each, his own.
To err is human; to forgive, divine. 
To know the road ahead ask those coming back.
Tomorrow is another day.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too much of one thing, good for nothing.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Trouble shared is trouble halved.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
Truth will out.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
Two heads are better than one.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
Two's company; three's a crowd.
Unprepare to prepare, be prepared to be unprepared.
Use it or lose it.
Use it up, wear it out, make do with, or do without.
Variety is the spice of life.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Walk softly, carry a big stick.
Walk the walk and talk the talk.
Waste not, want not.
A watched pot never boils.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
We can't always build the future for our youth, but we can build our youth for the future.
We have nothing to fear but fear itself.
We ourselves feel that what we are doing is just a drop in the ocean,but the ocean would be less without that drop.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
Well begun is half done.
"Well done" is better than "well said".
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
What goes around comes around.
What goes up must come down.
What you see is what you get.
What you sow is what you reap.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
When a thing is done advice comes too late.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
When one door closes, another door opens.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
Where there's a will, there's a way.
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
The whole dignity of man lies in the power of thought. 
Willful waste makes woeful want.
The wish is father to the thought.
A woman is like a tea bag; you'll never know how strong she is until she's in hot water.
A woman's work is never done.
Women need men like a fish needs a bicycle.
A word spoken is past recalling.
The world is your oyster.
Worship the Creator not His creation.
The worst way to miss someone is to be sitting right beside them knowing you can't have them.
Work is worship.
You always admire what you really dont understand.
You always find something in the last place you look.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
The younger brother the better gentleman.
You can't have an omelette unless you break the egg.
You don't shit where you eat.
